Support for international students
DMU’s friendly International Student Support team are on hand to offer you advice and support throughout your time at university.
They can be reached by emailing iss@dmu.ac.uk.
International Welcome Week runs from Tuesday 14 – Friday 17 January 2020. This week of events is designed to help students settle into life at DMU and includes a day-trip and social events, as well as information and guidance about living and studying in the UK.
Register for International Welcome Week at www.dmu.ac.uk/internationalwelcome.
We operate a coach pick-up service from London Heathrow (LHR) airport on Monday 14 January 2020. You can find out more details and book a place online at www.dmu.ac.uk/heathrow.
International student registration
Before you can register on your course as a new International Student you will need to have your passport and visa copied for university records. The Immigration Compliance team are running a registration event on Sunday 19 January (further details to be sent to you closer to the time) with additional opportunities for registration afterwards. You will need to bring your passport and visa document to this event so that the team can take a copy. Click here to download a printable guide to collecting Biometric Residence Permits (BRP) for new international students.
Biometric Residence Permits
A BRP is a secure identity card which contains personal details and biometric information for those who have permission (a visa) to come to the UK for more than six months.
When your Tier 4 visa application is approved you will first be issued with a 30-day entry vignette in your passport that will allow you to travel to the UK. This will only be valid for 30 days.
How do I collect my BRP?
Once you arrive in the UK you will need to collect your (BRP) card that will be valid for the full length of your stay in the UK. You must collect this within 10 days of arriving in the UK.
The university will not normally allow you to register until you have collected your BRP.
If you have chosen to collect from the university, you can do at the International Registration activities taking place from Sunday 19 January (further details will be sent to you closer to the time).
I have already collected my BRP from you – do I still need to come?
No, we will have copied your BRP before we gave it to you.
My BRP hasn’t arrived yet, what do I do?
Come to one of the International Registration Events and we will be able to investigate and advise further. Bring your BRP and passport collection letter.
Visa and passport documentation
Can I bring copies of my visa and passport instead of the originals?
We cannot accept copies of documents. You must bring the original document; which will be scanned and verified by a member of the Immigration Compliance Team.
My documents are with the Home Office as I’m applying for a new visa. Can I still register?
Students with ongoing visa applications can usually register while their visa application is being considered – to do this you must bring evidence that your visa application is being considered and that you made your application for a new visa before your previous visa expired.
The evidence you should bring is the Home Office confirmation of your visa application and a copy of your old visa.
I haven’t got confirmation of my visa application. Can I still register?
The university will need to check your immigration status with the Home Office in order to make this decision. You will be asked to provide your written consent to do this if it is necessary.
My current visa is about to expire. Can I register using that?
We would usually expect a student to have their visa to study the course, or have made their new visa application, before starting their new course.
If you don’t but your expiring visa was issued to study another course at De Montfort University, we may consider whether you can register. Visas issued to study at other institutions will not be acceptable under any circumstances.
Meet new friends
Our International Student Support team offer an international student buddy scheme, i-Buddies, which match international students with existing DMU students. New students will be contacted about the scheme before the start of their programme.
The team also runs Explore UK, a monthly programme of weekend trips. Previous trips have included Stonehenge, Oxford, Liverpool, Scotland and Cambridge. Look out for information from the team as new trips are announced.
New student FAQs
When do I get my student ID?
If you’ve completed registration and submitted a photograph, your ID will be given to you as part of your registration process. Refer to your Induction schedule to find out exactly when and where you should go.
When do I get my timetable?
Shortly after completing your registration your timetable will be made available to you. This is usually online via our student portal and smartphone app MyDMU. You will be able to view all the activities (such as lectures, tutorials or lab sessions) that you are required to attend through the year in time for the start of teaching. More information will be provided during your programme induction.
Please note: Students studying at Partner Institutions, including Leicester International Pathway College, will receive their timetable directly from their Partner Institution not via MyDMU.
What is Matriculation?
Every student joining DMU will be invited to a Matriculation ceremony at The Venue@DMU. Hosted by the Interim Vice-Chancellor, Professor Andy Collop, and the Pro Vice-Chancellor/Dean for your faculty, students are officially welcomed to the university. DMU’s key initiatives are outlined, sports clubs and societies are introduced and the ceremony acts as the start of your DMU journey. Ceremonies are tailored to our four faculties and you will receive specific information in your course induction pack.
Where can I see the latest student news?
Once you have registered, you will receive the weekly #LoveDMU newsletter with all the latest news and events to your personal DMU email address. Before then and throughout your time at DMU, you can visit the student pages of our website and our social media platforms, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube and Snapchat.
How can I find out about disability or mental health support?
The Disability Advice and Support team and Mental Health Inclusion team offer guidance to ensure that students can fully participate in their chosen course and the university experience. We encourage students to inform us about a disability or medical condition as early as possible so that relevant support can be arranged. For general advice about accessible places in Leicester and elsewhere, visit DisabledGo.com.
Can I have a vaccination against mumps, measles, rubella, meningitis and septicaemia?
Measles, mumps and rubella are highly infectious conditions that can have serious, potentially fatal complications, including meningitis and deafness. Young people can be at particular risk of getting these diseases.
The MenACWY vaccine immunises you against four types of meningitis (inflammation of the brain) and septicaemia (blood poisoning). The MMR vaccine consists of two jabs (you may have had this as a child so please check with a parent or guardian). Both vaccinations are available free to new university entrants, including international students, if you are a first year entrant and up to 25 years old. If you haven’t already been immunised, the Student Health Centre on campus will be able to provide information and register you.
How can I join the leisure centre?
The Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Leisure Centre on campus offers a range of flexible memberships to DMU students. You can join online or at the centre’s reception desk. Find out about the membership options. Its outstanding facilities include a swimming pool, gym, climbing wall and eight-court sports hall, along with fitness classes and personal training.
How do I join a sports club or society?
You can find our all about training times, coaching and how to get in touch by visiting our DMUsport webpages. If competitive sport isn’t your thing, there are plenty of recreational sporting opportunities that you can get involved with instead.
If sport isn’t your thing, but you’re looking to follow up a hobby, talent or interest then you might be interested in one our huge list of societies. Societies are great way to make friends, learn new things and have fun.
What do I need to bring for my programme induction?
Your faculty will be in touch with you via email or post to let you know what you will need.
How do I find out my username and password?
Your username is the letter 'p' followed by your student number (e.g.p1234567) and you will be provided with a temporary password.
You will be required to change this initial password and set up challenge/response questions when you first register with the university. This is a very straightforward process and takes a few minutes to complete.
If you have any queries take a look at the IT systems help page.
Is there anybody I can talk to regarding funding for my course?
Pop in to talk to our Student Finance and Welfare Team in the Student Gateway at Gateway House from Monday to Friday between 10am and 4pm. Alternatively contact us by phone on +44 (0)116 2577595 or email sas@dmu.ac.uk
I’m trying to set up a student bank account and they need a letter from the university. Where can I get this?
UCAS is now providing a verification service for banks so that you no longer require a letter. UCAS will have issued a reference number to you by email that your chosen bank can use instead of a letter. However, the bank may still request a letter from your university confirming you are a student. You can get this letter from the Student Gateway in Gateway House once you have completed your registration.
I have a question about university accommodation
Visit our accommodation web pages. If you have a query that is not listed please email the Accommodation Office.
I need a certificate to show that I am a student for council tax purposes
In general we will send notification to the local authority confirming you are a student at DMU, so you are not likely to need a certificate. The information sent about your home address will be based on the information you provide at registration, so please make sure you keep your address up to date through myDMU or at your Faculty Advice Centre. Your landlord may request a certificate separately; you can get this from the Student Gateway in Gateway House once you have completed registration.
Can I bring my car?
Unfortunately, parking at DMU is very limited as there are no spaces reserved for students. Find out more about student travel options.

How can I find out more about life at DMU?
If you have any questions about day-to-day life at DMU, employability, exams and more, then take a look at the Ask Us FAQ here or send an email to askus@dmu.ac.uk.

If your questions haven’t been answered, contact the Student Gateway – DMU’s one-stop shop for non-academic enquiries, including finance, welfare, mental health, disability issues, career prospects, ID cards, student records and letters.
You can contact them on 0116 257 7595 or email studentgateway@dmu.ac.uk
Alternatively if you’re already living in Leicester, its opening times in Gateway House are Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm.
Get to know your IT services at DMU
During your first week at DMU you will receive your University username and password. Once you receive it you will have access to a wide range of IT services on and off campus. Take the time to familiarise yourself with these to ensure you know where they are when you need them.
Self service password reset
Once you have been given your University username and password, and have been able to log on successfully for the first time. Make sure you register on the self-service password reset system. This allows you to setup a series of security questions. So that, in the event you forget your password, you can go to this site and reset you password automatically.
Blackboard
Blackboard is a web based virtual learning environment to support your learning. Blackboard provides access to online learning materials from any computer with internet access. It enables you to continue your learning activities, collaborate and access resources away from the lecture room. It is also, where you will find DMU Replay recordings.
MyDMU
MyDMU is a personalised, online system designed to support you while you study. This award-winning software complements the facilities provided by Blackboard.
MyDMU is also available as an app; which you can download now and view as a guest user:
When you log in with your university username and password MyDMU is tailored to your individual needs and allows you to access a wide range of information. Including:
•	the ability to view class timetables by course and module
•	being able to update your personal information
•	access your university financial account information, including bursaries and grants.
It also gives you access to a wide range of information on sports and fitness, accommodation, student representatives and the DMU Students’ Union (DSU).
MyGateway
MyGateway is DMU’s online one-stop-shop for career planning and job hunting. On this site you can access adverts for part-time jobs, placements and internships, graduate jobs and graduate training schemes. Build your online CV and covering letter using a variety of templates. Browse an extensive library of online resources. Including access to a wide range of aptitude tests and personality assessments.
MyGateway is also where you would go to book an appointment with one of the services available in the Student Gateway, including finance and welfare, disability issues, counselling, mental health and wellbeing.
Eduroam Wifi service
Eduroam is an international educational wireless network allowing you to access Wifi around campus and at other universities around the country which has Eduroam services. Eduroam provides you with a secure connection ensuring the security of your data. You will need your DMU username and password to set up Eduroam on your device, but once you have successfully connected, your devices will automatically go online while on campus.
Printing
Printing is simple at DMU, just swipe your student card at any machine and you can print from and to any student printer at the university. We have a fleet of 90 identical multi-function devices available across campus. This allows you to print to any student printer as well as access features such as photocopying and scanning to your University email address.
Topping up your printing account is easy too. Just use one of the kiosk located on campus or the printing portal.
Staying safe online
For some practical advice and assistance in keeping safe online, our Information Technology and Media Services team have produced this useful Staying Safe Online booklet.
For more information on IT systems at DMU, click here.
